REFLECTIVE BLOG POST-GROUP WORK EXPERIENCE 

Our first group work project was about solving problems faced by a certain company which was said to be “Kopano Enterprise”. The project was kind of a lot of work but since we were many in a group, completing a project was not that much of a problem. I was nervous and excited because this was a challenging task for me. The group work made us learn teamwork skills and improve our confidence as everyone was forced to take part during discussions. How we did things was a real definition of the Tuckman’s stages

FORMING
The group was formed by us, we had to find 6 individuals to create a complete group as required. After forming groups, we posted our names on teams to officialize the group. Our group was not created according to friendship but rather on how we see each other, their capabilities and how they view things. We created a WhatsApp group afterwards so we can communicate easily there. There we communicated on how we were going to meet, where, and what time for our first meeting. There, in the meeting, we as a team decided on what we are going to research about. We started by explaining what the presentation is all about, what we must do, and how we are going to do it. From there, our team chose a group leader as we were aware that very group needs a leader so it can do their work well as they need supervision  Then the next meeting we all worked together every question as we all agreed that everyone must do research on the whole project, this was said to not exclude others in some sections of the project which was advantages because everyone got to understand what the project is about .

STORMING 
During our journey as a group, problems arose, some members came late to the group meetings, some did not attend the group call scheduled, some did not show up for the physical meetings. Everyone had reasons why they were absent from the meeting sessions, and some reasons were reasonable while some were not. This sometimes made our meeting not to be productive because at the next meeting we will be repeating the same thing we did at the last meeting, so we accommodate them and not leave anyone behind. Or when we set the meeting time and people do not show up, we end up postponing the meeting to a later date, therefore this made our progress slow, and it was also frustrating and exhausting as this showed no seriousness among our teammates. Some people did not attend even scheduled meetings on WhatsApp. During discussions, there was a lot of confusion between us and some of us were even contradicting what we had said before. There were some debates here and there. Some even speak while others are still talking. While preparing the presentation, my teammates began to argue about how to decorate our presentation slides, and how to put points on the slides. 

NORMING
Group ground rules were set so everyone knows the right thing to do. For late arrival, we set rules that wherever we are when time clocks for our physical meeting and you are not there you join through a call until you arrive at the destination. This was a solution because we did not have to repeat ourselves after a meeting as all of us will be attending some physically and some online. For those who did not attend the online meetings we made sure that our secretary takes minutes, so they get posted on WhatsApp and everyone will have a clue what was happening during the meeting.  People started to engage more like before and this made us finish the presentation well on time before the due date. Those who understood the presentation more made sure others understood what was going on and that reduced the debate between people, which also saved time to complete other tasks. People started to respect each other and gave each other time to speak without interfering. The team gave at least 2 members of our group to create and design the presentation template to reduce too much conflict.

PERFORMING
The team was now able to work alone with less supervision, they were now all engaging in the presentation, so the work was distributed equally, no one had to work alone for the group. Also, the group members started gaining trust in each other.

ADJOURNING 
Here our presentation slides were ready to be presented, I was satisfied with our presentation slide, but the decoration was not too much. We also presented well and thankfully we got better marks 
